webdocs/packages.mdx, before:

# AIKit Package Management

**Version**: 1.0.0
**Last Updated**: 2025-01-06

## Overview

AIKit packages are self-contained extensions that add AI agent commands and templates to your development workflow. The package ecosystem enables sharing reusable AI tools across teams and the broader community.

## Package Ecosystem

### What Are Packages?

AIKit packages contain:
- **Commands**: Reusable AI prompts and automation scripts
- **Templates**: Structured content templates for common tasks
- **Scripts**: Supporting automation and utility scripts
- **Documentation**: Usage guides and examples
- **Metadata**: Package information and dependencies

### Package Registry

Packages are distributed via GitHub repositories, forming a decentralized package registry:

- **Discovery**: Search GitHub for `aikit package` repositories
- **Installation**: Direct from GitHub URLs or local directories
- **Updates**: Version-based package management
- **Community**: Open-source collaboration and sharing

## Creating Packages

### Package Structure

Every AIKit package follows this structure:

```
my-package/
├── aikit.toml          # Package metadata and configuration
├── README.md           # Package description and usage
├── templates/          # AI command templates
│   ├── help.md        # Example command template
│   ├── analyze.md     # Another command template
│   └── ...
├── scripts/           # Optional automation scripts
│   ├── setup.sh       # Installation/setup scripts
│   └── validate.sh    # Validation scripts
└── docs/             # Optional additional documentation
    └── advanced.md
```

### Package Metadata (`aikit.toml`)

The `aikit.toml` file defines your package:

```toml
[package]
name = "my-package"
version = "0.1.0"
description = "My AI development tools"
authors = ["Your Name"]
license = "MIT"
homepage = "https://example.com"
repository = "https://github.com/username/my-package"

[commands.help]
description = "Show help information"
template = "help.md"

[commands.analyze]
description = "Analyze code for issues"
template = "analyze.md"

[artifacts]
"templates/*.md" = ".aikit/templates/"
"scripts/*" = ".aikit/scripts/"
```

#### Package Fields

| Field | Required | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | Yes | Unique package identifier |
| `version` | Yes | Semantic version (major.minor.patch) |
| `description` | Yes | Brief package purpose |
| `authors` | No | Package authors/maintainers |
| `license` | No | License type (MIT, Apache-2.0, etc.) |
| `homepage` | No | Project website |
| `repository` | No | Source code repository |

#### Commands Section

Define available commands in your package:

```toml
[commands.command-name]
description = "What this command does"
template = "template-file.md"  # Optional, defaults to commands/{name}.md
```

#### Artifacts Mapping

Map package files to AIKit installation locations:

```toml
[artifacts]
# Source files → Destination directories
"templates/*.md" = ".aikit/templates/"
"scripts/*.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
"docs/*" = ".aikit/docs/"
```

### Command Templates

Templates use Markdown with variable substitution:

```markdown
# Code Review Command

**Description**: {{command_description}}

**Package**: {{package_name}}

## Usage

Select code and run this command to get a comprehensive review.

## Analysis Results

[AI will provide detailed code review here]
```

#### Available Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `{{package_name}}` | Package name from aikit.toml |
| `{{command_description}}` | Command description |
| `{{command_name}}` | Current command name |

### Quick Package Creation

1. **Initialize package**:
   ```bash
   aikit package init my-tools --description "My AI tools"
   cd my-tools
   ```

2. **Edit metadata**:
   ```bash
   # Modify aikit.toml as needed
   # Add authors, license, etc.
   ```

3. **Create command templates**:
   ```bash
   # Create templates/analyze.md
   cat > templates/analyze.md << 'EOF'
   # Code Analysis

   **Description**: {{command_description}}

   ## Usage

   Select code to analyze and run this command.

   ## Analysis

   [AI analysis results will appear here]
   EOF
   ```

4. **Update command definitions**:
   ```bash
   # Add to aikit.toml
   cat >> aikit.toml << 'EOF'

   [commands.analyze]
   description = "Analyze code for improvements"
   template = "analyze.md"
   EOF
   ```

5. **Test locally**:
   ```bash
   aikit package build
   aikit install .
   aikit check
   ```

## Package Development Workflow

### Local Development

Develop and test packages locally before publishing:

1. **Initialize package**:
   ```bash
   aikit package init dev-tools
   cd dev-tools
   ```

2. **Development cycle**:
   ```bash
   # Edit templates and metadata
   # Test changes locally
   aikit install . --force
   aikit check
   ```

3. **Build for distribution**:
   ```bash
   aikit package build
   # Creates dist/dev-tools-0.1.0.zip
   ```

### Version Management

Follow semantic versioning for packages:

- **Major** (1.0.0): Breaking changes
- **Minor** (0.1.0): New features, backward compatible
- **Patch** (0.0.1): Bug fixes, backward compatible

```bash
# Update version
sed -i 's/version = "0.1.0"/version = "0.2.0"/' aikit.toml

# Build new version
aikit package build

# Tag in git
git tag v0.2.0
```

### Publishing Packages

Share your packages with the community:

1. **Create GitHub repository**:
   ```bash
   # Create repository: username/my-package
   # Push your package code
   git remote add origin https://github.com/username/my-package.git
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. **Publish package**:
   ```bash
   aikit package publish username/my-package
   ```

   This creates:
   - GitHub release with package ZIP
   - Release notes and version tags
   - Download links for users

3. **Users can install**:
   ```bash
   aikit install username/my-package
   ```

## Advanced Package Features

### Multi-Command Packages

Create packages with multiple related commands:

```toml
[commands.lint]
description = "Check code style and syntax"

[commands.format]
description = "Format code according to standards"

[commands.test]
description = "Run automated tests"

[artifacts]
"templates/*.md" = ".aikit/templates/"
"scripts/linter.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
```

### Agent-Specific Customizations

Customize behavior for different AI agents:

```toml
[agents.claude]
# Claude-specific settings
command_prefix = "claude-"

[agents.cursor]
# Cursor-specific settings
template_format = "cursor"
```

### Package Dependencies

Reference other packages (future feature):

```toml
[dependencies]
base-tools = "1.0.0"  # Require another package
```

### Script Integration

Include automation scripts in your package:

```toml
[artifacts]
"scripts/setup.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
"scripts/validate.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
```

Scripts can be referenced in templates or used for package setup.

## Package Discovery and Usage

### Finding Packages

Discover packages in the ecosystem:

```bash
# Search for packages
aikit search "code review"
aikit search "testing" --detailed

# Browse by category
aikit search "documentation"
aikit search "ci/cd"
```

### Discovering Community Packages

Find packages created by the AIKit community:

```bash
# Search for packages by keyword
aikit search "code review"
aikit search "testing tools" --detailed

# Browse popular packages
aikit search "popular" --limit 10

# Find packages for specific agents
aikit search "claude" --limit 5
aikit search "gemini tools"
```

**Search Tips:**
- Use descriptive keywords like "testing", "code review", "documentation"
- Add `--detailed` for more information about each package
- Search results show package name, stars, description, and repository URL
- Packages are ranked by relevance and popularity

### Installing Packages

Install from various sources:

```bash
# From GitHub
aikit install username/package-name

# Specific version
aikit install username/package-name --version v2.1.0

# From local directory (development)
aikit install /path/to/package
aikit install .  # Current directory

# With custom token
aikit install username/private-package --token ghp_123...
```

### Managing Installed Packages

```bash
# List installed packages
aikit list

# List with details
aikit list --detailed

# Update packages
aikit update package-name
aikit update  # All packages

# Remove packages
aikit remove package-name
```

## Package Validation

### Automatic Validation

AIKit validates packages during installation:

- Package structure and required files
- TOML syntax and required fields
- Template file references
- Artifact mappings

### Manual Validation

Validate your package before publishing:

```bash
# Validate package structure
aikit package validate

# Build package (additional validation)
aikit package build

# Test installation
aikit install ./dist/package-0.1.0.zip
```

## Best Practices

### Package Naming

- Use lowercase with hyphens: `code-analysis-tools`
- Be descriptive but concise
- Avoid generic names like "utils" or "tools"

### Command Design

- **Single Responsibility**: Each command should do one thing well
- **Clear Descriptions**: Explain what the command does and when to use it
- **Consistent Naming**: Use verbs for actions (analyze, generate, refactor)
- **Progressive Disclosure**: Start simple, offer advanced options

### Template Quality

- **Structured Content**: Use clear headings and sections
- **Actionable Guidance**: Provide specific, implementable advice
- **Examples**: Include concrete examples wherever possible
- **Error Handling**: Anticipate common issues and edge cases

### Documentation

- **README.md**: Include installation, usage, and examples
- **Command Documentation**: Each template should be self-documenting
- **Changelog**: Track changes and version updates
- **Contributing Guide**: How others can contribute

## Community and Collaboration

### Contributing to Packages

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Test locally**: `aikit install .`
5. **Submit a pull request**

### Package Categories

Common package types in the ecosystem:

- **Code Analysis**: Linting, security, performance
- **Code Generation**: Components, APIs, tests
- **Documentation**: README generation, API docs
- **DevOps**: CI/CD, deployment scripts
- **Project Management**: Issue tracking, PR templates

### Ecosystem Growth

Contribute to the AIKit ecosystem by:

- **Sharing packages**: Publish useful tools you've created
- **Improving existing packages**: Submit bug fixes and enhancements
- **Documenting patterns**: Share best practices and templates
- **Reporting issues**: Help improve the ecosystem quality

## Troubleshooting Package Issues

### Common Problems

**"Package not found" error**:
```bash
# Check repository exists and is public
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/username/package-name
```

**"Invalid package structure" error**:
```bash
# Validate package locally
aikit package validate
# Check aikit.toml syntax
python3 -c "import toml; toml.load('aikit.toml')"
```

**"Template not found" during installation**:
```bash
# Verify template files exist
ls -la templates/
# Check artifact mappings in aikit.toml
```

**"Permission denied" during installation**:
```bash
# Check directory permissions
ls -ld ~/.aikit/
ls -ld .aikit/
```

### Getting Help

- **Package Documentation**: Check the package's README.md
- **Community Support**: Open issues on package repositories
- **Validation Tools**: Use `aikit package validate --verbose`
- **Debug Mode**: Run `aikit --debug command` for detailed output

## See Also

- [CLI Commands](cli-commands.md) - Command-line interface reference
- [Configuration Guide](configuration.md) - Setup and configuration options
- [Usage Examples](examples.md) - Practical examples and tutorials
- [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) - Common issues and solutions

Commit message:

feat: Optimize webdocs for Mintlify best practices
- Update docs.json with AIKit branding (remove Mintlify references)
- Add proper frontmatter to all MDX files with title/description
- Replace generic Mintlify content with AIKit-specific guides
- Create custom llms.txt for better LLM documentation indexing
- Ensure all navigation links are valid and properly formatted
- Follow Mintlify MDX standards and llms.txt specifications

Closes Mintlify optimization for 004-docs-create

webdocs/packages.mdx, after:

---
title: "Package Management"
description: "Guide to creating, publishing, and managing AIKit packages for sharing AI agent extensions across teams and the community."
---

# AIKit Package Management

## Overview

AIKit packages are self-contained extensions that add AI agent commands and templates to your development workflow. The package ecosystem enables sharing reusable AI tools across teams and the broader community.

## Package Ecosystem

### What Are Packages?

AIKit packages contain:
- **Commands**: Reusable AI prompts and automation scripts
- **Templates**: Structured content templates for common tasks
- **Scripts**: Supporting automation and utility scripts
- **Documentation**: Usage guides and examples
- **Metadata**: Package information and dependencies

### Package Registry

Packages are distributed via GitHub repositories, forming a decentralized package registry:

- **Discovery**: Search GitHub for `aikit package` repositories
- **Installation**: Direct from GitHub URLs or local directories
- **Updates**: Version-based package management
- **Community**: Open-source collaboration and sharing

## Creating Packages

### Package Structure

Every AIKit package follows this structure:

```
my-package/
├── aikit.toml          # Package metadata and configuration
├── README.md           # Package description and usage
├── templates/          # AI command templates
│   ├── help.md        # Example command template
│   ├── analyze.md     # Another command template
│   └── ...
├── scripts/           # Optional automation scripts
│   ├── setup.sh       # Installation/setup scripts
│   └── validate.sh    # Validation scripts
└── docs/             # Optional additional documentation
    └── advanced.md
```

### Package Metadata (`aikit.toml`)

The `aikit.toml` file defines your package:

```toml
[package]
name = "my-package"
version = "0.1.0"
description = "My AI development tools"
authors = ["Your Name"]
license = "MIT"
homepage = "https://example.com"
repository = "https://github.com/username/my-package"

[commands.help]
description = "Show help information"
template = "help.md"

[commands.analyze]
description = "Analyze code for issues"
template = "analyze.md"

[artifacts]
"templates/*.md" = ".aikit/templates/"
"scripts/*" = ".aikit/scripts/"
```

#### Package Fields

| Field | Required | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | Yes | Unique package identifier |
| `version` | Yes | Semantic version (major.minor.patch) |
| `description` | Yes | Brief package purpose |
| `authors` | No | Package authors/maintainers |
| `license` | No | License type (MIT, Apache-2.0, etc.) |
| `homepage` | No | Project website |
| `repository` | No | Source code repository |

#### Commands Section

Define available commands in your package:

```toml
[commands.command-name]
description = "What this command does"
template = "template-file.md"  # Optional, defaults to commands/{name}.md
```

#### Artifacts Mapping

Map package files to AIKit installation locations:

```toml
[artifacts]
# Source files → Destination directories
"templates/*.md" = ".aikit/templates/"
"scripts/*.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
"docs/*" = ".aikit/docs/"
```

### Command Templates

Templates use Markdown with variable substitution:

```markdown
# Code Review Command

**Description**: {{command_description}}

**Package**: {{package_name}}

## Usage

Select code and run this command to get a comprehensive review.

## Analysis Results

[AI will provide detailed code review here]
```

#### Available Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `{{package_name}}` | Package name from aikit.toml |
| `{{command_description}}` | Command description |
| `{{command_name}}` | Current command name |

### Quick Package Creation

1. **Initialize package**:
   ```bash
   aikit package init my-tools --description "My AI tools"
   cd my-tools
   ```

2. **Edit metadata**:
   ```bash
   # Modify aikit.toml as needed
   # Add authors, license, etc.
   ```

3. **Create command templates**:
   ```bash
   # Create templates/analyze.md
   cat > templates/analyze.md << 'EOF'
   # Code Analysis

   **Description**: {{command_description}}

   ## Usage

   Select code to analyze and run this command.

   ## Analysis

   [AI analysis results will appear here]
   EOF
   ```

4. **Update command definitions**:
   ```bash
   # Add to aikit.toml
   cat >> aikit.toml << 'EOF'

   [commands.analyze]
   description = "Analyze code for improvements"
   template = "analyze.md"
   EOF
   ```

5. **Test locally**:
   ```bash
   aikit package build
   aikit install .
   aikit check
   ```

## Package Development Workflow

### Local Development

Develop and test packages locally before publishing:

1. **Initialize package**:
   ```bash
   aikit package init dev-tools
   cd dev-tools
   ```

2. **Development cycle**:
   ```bash
   # Edit templates and metadata
   # Test changes locally
   aikit install . --force
   aikit check
   ```

3. **Build for distribution**:
   ```bash
   aikit package build
   # Creates dist/dev-tools-0.1.0.zip
   ```

### Version Management

Follow semantic versioning for packages:

- **Major** (1.0.0): Breaking changes
- **Minor** (0.1.0): New features, backward compatible
- **Patch** (0.0.1): Bug fixes, backward compatible

```bash
# Update version
sed -i 's/version = "0.1.0"/version = "0.2.0"/' aikit.toml

# Build new version
aikit package build

# Tag in git
git tag v0.2.0
```

### Publishing Packages

Share your packages with the community:

1. **Create GitHub repository**:
   ```bash
   # Create repository: username/my-package
   # Push your package code
   git remote add origin https://github.com/username/my-package.git
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. **Publish package**:
   ```bash
   aikit package publish username/my-package
   ```

   This creates:
   - GitHub release with package ZIP
   - Release notes and version tags
   - Download links for users

3. **Users can install**:
   ```bash
   aikit install username/my-package
   ```

## Advanced Package Features

### Multi-Command Packages

Create packages with multiple related commands:

```toml
[commands.lint]
description = "Check code style and syntax"

[commands.format]
description = "Format code according to standards"

[commands.test]
description = "Run automated tests"

[artifacts]
"templates/*.md" = ".aikit/templates/"
"scripts/linter.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
```

### Agent-Specific Customizations

Customize behavior for different AI agents:

```toml
[agents.claude]
# Claude-specific settings
command_prefix = "claude-"

[agents.cursor]
# Cursor-specific settings
template_format = "cursor"
```

### Package Dependencies

Reference other packages (future feature):

```toml
[dependencies]
base-tools = "1.0.0"  # Require another package
```

### Script Integration

Include automation scripts in your package:

```toml
[artifacts]
"scripts/setup.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
"scripts/validate.sh" = ".aikit/scripts/"
```

Scripts can be referenced in templates or used for package setup.

## Package Discovery and Usage

### Finding Packages

Discover packages in the ecosystem:

```bash
# Search for packages
aikit search "code review"
aikit search "testing" --detailed

# Browse by category
aikit search "documentation"
aikit search "ci/cd"
```

### Discovering Community Packages

Find packages created by the AIKit community:

```bash
# Search for packages by keyword
aikit search "code review"
aikit search "testing tools" --detailed

# Browse popular packages
aikit search "popular" --limit 10

# Find packages for specific agents
aikit search "claude" --limit 5
aikit search "gemini tools"
```

**Search Tips:**
- Use descriptive keywords like "testing", "code review", "documentation"
- Add `--detailed` for more information about each package
- Search results show package name, stars, description, and repository URL
- Packages are ranked by relevance and popularity

### Installing Packages

Install from various sources:

```bash
# From GitHub
aikit install username/package-name

# Specific version
aikit install username/package-name --version v2.1.0

# From local directory (development)
aikit install /path/to/package
aikit install .  # Current directory

# With custom token
aikit install username/private-package --token ghp_123...
```

### Managing Installed Packages

```bash
# List installed packages
aikit list

# List with details
aikit list --detailed

# Update packages
aikit update package-name
aikit update  # All packages

# Remove packages
aikit remove package-name
```

## Package Validation

### Automatic Validation

AIKit validates packages during installation:

- Package structure and required files
- TOML syntax and required fields
- Template file references
- Artifact mappings

### Manual Validation

Validate your package before publishing:

```bash
# Validate package structure
aikit package validate

# Build package (additional validation)
aikit package build

# Test installation
aikit install ./dist/package-0.1.0.zip
```

## Best Practices

### Package Naming

- Use lowercase with hyphens: `code-analysis-tools`
- Be descriptive but concise
- Avoid generic names like "utils" or "tools"

### Command Design

- **Single Responsibility**: Each command should do one thing well
- **Clear Descriptions**: Explain what the command does and when to use it
- **Consistent Naming**: Use verbs for actions (analyze, generate, refactor)
- **Progressive Disclosure**: Start simple, offer advanced options

### Template Quality

- **Structured Content**: Use clear headings and sections
- **Actionable Guidance**: Provide specific, implementable advice
- **Examples**: Include concrete examples wherever possible
- **Error Handling**: Anticipate common issues and edge cases

### Documentation

- **README.md**: Include installation, usage, and examples
- **Command Documentation**: Each template should be self-documenting
- **Changelog**: Track changes and version updates
- **Contributing Guide**: How others can contribute

## Community and Collaboration

### Contributing to Packages

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Test locally**: `aikit install .`
5. **Submit a pull request**

### Package Categories

Common package types in the ecosystem:

- **Code Analysis**: Linting, security, performance
- **Code Generation**: Components, APIs, tests
- **Documentation**: README generation, API docs
- **DevOps**: CI/CD, deployment scripts
- **Project Management**: Issue tracking, PR templates

### Ecosystem Growth

Contribute to the AIKit ecosystem by:

- **Sharing packages**: Publish useful tools you've created
- **Improving existing packages**: Submit bug fixes and enhancements
- **Documenting patterns**: Share best practices and templates
- **Reporting issues**: Help improve the ecosystem quality

## Troubleshooting Package Issues

### Common Problems

**"Package not found" error**:
```bash
# Check repository exists and is public
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/username/package-name
```

**"Invalid package structure" error**:
```bash
# Validate package locally
aikit package validate
# Check aikit.toml syntax
python3 -c "import toml; toml.load('aikit.toml')"
```

**"Template not found" during installation**:
```bash
# Verify template files exist
ls -la templates/
# Check artifact mappings in aikit.toml
```

**"Permission denied" during installation**:
```bash
# Check directory permissions
ls -ld ~/.aikit/
ls -ld .aikit/
```

### Getting Help

- **Package Documentation**: Check the package's README.md
- **Community Support**: Open issues on package repositories
- **Validation Tools**: Use `aikit package validate --verbose`
- **Debug Mode**: Run `aikit --debug command` for detailed output

## See Also

- [CLI Commands](cli-commands.md) - Command-line interface reference
- [Configuration Guide](configuration.md) - Setup and configuration options
- [Usage Examples](examples.md) - Practical examples and tutorials
- [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) - Common issues and solutions
